Q: An airport is
X: an aerodrome with paved runways.
X: an aerodrome with a control tower.
X: a registered aerodrome.
Y: a certified aerodrome.
Q: A dry Transport Canada standard wind direction indicator when horizontal indicates a wind speed of at least
X: 25 KT.
Y: 15 KT.
X: 10 KT.
X: 6 KT.
Q: No person shall operate any vehicle on any part of an uncontrolled airport used for the movement of aircraft, except in accordance with permission from
Y: the operator of the airport.
X: the airport security officer.
X: a federal peace officer.
X: a qualified flying instructor.
Q: Runways and taxiways or portions thereof that are closed to aircraft are marked by
X: red flags.
X: horizontal red squares with yellow diagonals.
Y: a white or yellow X.
X: white dumb-bells.
Q: The west end of a runway oriented east and west is numbered
Y: 09.
X: 90.
X: 27.
X: 270.
Q: Refer to Appendix: HOLDING POSITION MARKINGS (Diagram #1)
Holding position markings
At controlled airports, the taxiway holding position markings in diagrams A and B indicate that aircraft shall stop
X: on the solid line side at all times.
Y: on the solid line side unless otherwise cleared by ATC.
X: before crossing the lines from either side at all times.
X: before crossing the lines from either side unless otherwise cleared by ATC.
Q: Where taxiway holding positions have notbeen established, aircraft waiting to enter an active runway should normally hold
X: clear of the manoeuvring area.
X: 50 feet from the edge of the runway.
X: 150 feet from the edge of the runway.
Y: 200 feet from the edge of the runway.
Q: The manoeuvring area of an airport is that area
X: normally referred to as the ramp or apron.
X: which includes the apron, taxiways and runways.
X: used when taxiing to and from the parking area.
Y: used for taxiing, taking off and landing.
Q: Except for the purpose of taking off or landing, an aircraft shall not be flown over an aerodrome at a height of less than
Y: 2,000 feet AGL.
X: 1,500 feet AGL.
X: 1,000 feet AGL.
X: 500 feet AGL.
Q: Refer to Appendix: HELIPORT MARKINGS (Diagram #1)
heliport markings
Select the helicopter ground markings which identify respectively
- a hospital heliport,
- a heliport.
X: D, C.
X: D, A.
X: B, C.
Y: A, B.