Q: A flight crew member aware of being under a physical disability that might invalidate licence issue or renewal shall
X: so advise the Minister.
Y: not commence a flight as a crew member.
X: forward the licence to the Regional Aviation Medical Officer.
X: fly as crew member only if a back-up member is available.
Q: What is the recommended treatment for hyperventilation below 8,000 feet?
X: Increase the depth of breathing.
X: Hold the breath and perform a Valsalva manoeuvre.
Y: Slow the breathing rate to below 12 times per minute.
X: Increase oxygen flow rates.
Q: Damage to the ear drum in flight is most likely to occur
X: during a climb.
Y: during a descent.
X: when using supplementary oxygen.
X: after SCUBA diving.
Q: Clearing the ears on a rapid descent may be assisted by
X: swallowing.
X: opening the mouth widely or yawning.
X: a Valsalva manoeuvre.
Y: all of the above.
Q: Flight crew members who require decompression stops on the way to the surface when SCUBA diving should not fly for
X: 4 hours.
X: 8 hours.
X: 12 hours.
Y: 24 hours.
Q: With regard to fatigue, which statement is correct according to the information given under the "Medical Information" section of the A.I.P. Canada?
X: Financial or family problems do not influence tolerance to fatigue.
Y: Fatigue slows reaction time and causes foolish inattentive errors.
X: A fatigued person recuperates more quickly as altitude is gained.
X: A fatigued person must have food immediately before and during flight.
Q: A pilot who has donated blood should not act as a flight crew member for at least the next
X: 12 hours.
X: 24 hours.
X: 36 hours.
Y: 48 hours.
Q: Any pilot who has had a general anaesthetic should not act as a flight crew member
X: during the next 12 hrs.
X: during the next 36 hrs.
X: during the next 48 hrs.
Y: unless advised it is safe to do so by a doctor.
Q: Any pilot who has had a local anaesthetic for extensive dental procedures should not act as a flight crew member during the next
X: 12 hrs.
Y: 24 hrs.
X: 36 hrs.
X: 48 hrs.
Q: Relatively small amounts of alcohol affect tolerance to hypoxia (lack of sufficient oxygen). This tolerance
Y: deteriorates with increase of altitude.
X: improves with increase of altitude.
X: is not affected by altitude change.
X: remains constant to 6,000 feet ASL.
Q: Many common drugs such as cold tablets, cough mixtures, antihistamines and other over-the-counter remedies may seriously impair the judgement and co-ordination needed while flying. The safest rule is to
X: read the manufacturer's warning to ensure that you are aware of possible reactions to such drugs.
Y: take no medicine when you plan to fly, except on the advice of an Aviation Medical Examiner.
X: allow at least 12 hours between taking any medicine or drugs and flying.
X: allow at least 8 hours between taking any medicine or drugs and flying.
Q: The Canadian Medical Certificate of a private pilot 40 years old and over is valid, in Canada, for a period of
X: 12 months.
Y: 24 months.
X: 36 months.
X: 48 months.
Q: The Canadian Medical Certificate of a private pilot under 40 years of age is valid, in Canada, for a period of
X: 72 months.
Y: 60 months.
X: 48 months.
X: 24 months.