Q: An ATC instruction
Y:  must be complied with when received by the pilot providing the safety of the aircraft is not jeopardized.
X:  must be "read back" in full to the controller and confirmed before becoming effective.
X:  is in effect advice provided by ATC and does not require acceptance or formal acknowledgement by the pilot concerned.
X:  is the same as an ATC clearance.
Q: An ATC clearance
X:  is the same as an ATC instruction.
X:  is in effect advice provided by ATC and does not require acceptance or acknowledgement by the PIC.
Y:  requires compliance when accepted by the PIC.
X:  must be complied with when received by the PIC.
Q: A pilot, after accepting a clearance and subsequently finding that all or part of the clearance cannot be complied with, should
X:  disregard the clearance.
X:  comply with only the part that is suitable.
X:  comply as best as possible under the circumstances to carry out the clearance and need not say anything to ATC.
Y:  comply as best as possible under the circumstances and advise ATC as soon as possible.
Q: After accepting a clearance and subsequently finding that it cannot be complied with, a pilot should
Y:  take any immediate action required and advise ATC as soon as possible.
X:  comply as best as possible under the circumstances and say nothing to ATC.
X:  disregard the clearance.
X:  comply with the suitable parts.
Q: An ATC clearance or instruction is predicated on known traffic only. Therefore, when a pilot is proceeding in accordance with a clearance or instruction
X:  ATC is relieved of the responsibility for traffic separation.
X:  the responsibility for traffic separation is divided between ATC and the pilot.
Y:  the pilot is not relieved of the responsibility for traffic avoidance.
X:  the pilot is relieved of the responsibility for traffic avoidance.
Q: If all or part of an ATC clearance is unacceptable, a pilot should
X:  comply as best as possible under the circumstances.
X:  refuse the clearance without giving a reason for refusal.
X:  acknowledge the clearance and read back only the acceptable parts.
Y:  refuse the clearance and inform ATC of the pilots intentions.