Q: Which statement is true with regard to aircraft converging at approximately the same altitude?
X: A jet airliner has the right of way over all other aircraft
Y: An aircraft towing objects has the right of way over all power-driven heavier-than-air aircraft.
X: An aeroplane has the right of way over all other aircraft which are converging from the left.
X: Aeroplanes towing gliders must give way to helicopters.
Q: When two aircraft are converging at approximately the same altitude
X: both aircraft shall alter heading to the left.
X: the aircraft on the right shall avoid the other by descending.
Y: the aircraft that has the other on its right shall give way.
X: the aircraft that has the other on its left shall give way.
Q: When two aircraft are converging at approximately the same altitude, which statement applies?
X: Gliders shall give way to helicopters.
X: Aeroplanes shall give way to power-driven heavier-than-air aircraft.
X: Gliders shall give way to aeroplanes.
Y: Power-driven heavier-than-air aircraft shall give way to gliders.
Q: When two aircraft are converging at approximately the same altitude, which statement applies?
X: Gliders shall give way to helicopters.
X: Aeroplanes shall give way to helicopters.
X: Helicopters shall give way to aeroplanes.
Y: Helicopters shall give way to gliders.
Q: When two aircraft are converging at approximately the same altitude, which statement applies?
X: Gliders shall give way to helicopters.
X: Aeroplanes shall give way to helicopters.
X: Helicopters shall give way to aeroplanes.
Y: Gliders shall give way to balloons.
Q: When converging at approximately the same altitude
X: balloons shall give way to hang gliders.
Y: aeroplanes towing gliders shall give way to balloons.
X: balloons shall give way to gliders.
X: balloons shall give way to airships.
Q: When two power-driven heavier-than-air aircraft are converging at approximately the same altitude,
X: the one on the left has the right of way.
X: both shall alter heading to the left.
Y: the one on the right has the right of way.
X: the one on the right shall give way by descending.
Q: When two aircraft are approaching head-on or approximately so and there is danger of collision, each pilot shall
X: decrease airspeed.
X: increase airspeed.
Y: alter heading to the right.
X: alter heading to the left.
Q: When overtaking an aircraft at your 12 o'clock position, at your altitude, you should
X: climb.
X: descend.
Y: alter heading to the right.
X: alter heading to the left.
Q: Two aircraft are on approach to land, the aircraft at the higher altitude shall
X: have the right of way.
X: overtake the lower aircraft on the left.
Y: give way.
X: complete a 360° turn to the right.