Q: "Controlled Airspace" means all airspace of defined dimensions within which
X:  Control Zone regulations are in force.
X:  security regulations are in force.
X:  Special VFR flight only is permitted.
Y:  an ATC service is provided.
Q: When in VFR flight within controlled airspace, a pilot must remain clear of cloud by at least
Y:  500 feet vertically and 1 mile horizontally.
X:  500 feet vertically and 2,000 feet horizontally.
X:  1,000 feet vertically and 1 mile horizontally.
X:  1,000 feet vertically and 3 miles horizontally.
Q: The minimum flight visibility for VFR flight within a low level airway is
X:  1 mile.
X:  1½ miles.
X:  2 miles.
Y:  3 miles.
Q: When in VFR flight within a Control Zone, a pilot must remain clear of cloud by at least
X:  500 feet vertically and 2,000 feet horizontally.
Y:  500 feet vertically and 1 mile horizontally.
X:  1,000 feet vertically and 1 mile horizontally.
X:  1,000 feet vertically and 3 miles horizontally.
Q: VFR cross-country pilots wishing to cross through any part of a Class C Control Zone should
X:  advise the associated FSS.
X:  monitor the Approach Control frequency.
Y:  advise ATC of their intentions and obtain a clearance.
X:  conform with circuit direction at that airport.
Q: ATC may authorize an aeroplane equipped with a functioning two-way radio to transit a Control Zone under day Special VFR provided the flight visibility and, when reported, ground visibility, are each not less than ....
X:  1/2 mile.
Y:  1 mile.
X:  2 miles.
X:  3 miles.
Q: ATC may authorize a helicopter equipped with a functioning two-way radio to transit a Control Zone under day Special VFR where the flight visibility and, when reported, ground visibility are each not less than ....
X:  1 mile and operated at not less than 500 feet AGL.
Y:  1/2 mile.
X:  1 mile.
X:  1/2 mile and operated at not less than 500 feet AGL.
Q: An aircraft flying in accordance with Special VFR would be flying within
Y:  a Control Zone.
X:  an Aerodrome Traffic Zone.
X:  a Terminal Control Area.
X:  an airway.
Q: An arriving VFR flight shall make initial radio contact with the control tower
X:  upon entering an Aerodrome Traffic Zone.
Y:  prior to entering a Control Zone.
X:  immediately prior to joining the circuit.
X:  immediately after entering a Control Zone.
Q: VFR flight within Class B airspace is permitted
X:  only when the flight visibility is 5 miles or better.
X:  for all aircraft except gliders and balloons.
X:  if the pilot holds a Class B Airspace Endorsement.
Y:  in accordance with an ATC clearance.
Q: The pilot of an arriving VFR flight shall make initial radio contact with a control tower in Class C airspace
X:  immediately after entering the Control Zone.
X:  10 NM outside the Control Zone.
Y:  prior to entering the Control Zone.
X:  immediately prior to joining the circuit.
Q: Unless otherwise authorized, a pilot on a VFR flight operating within a Class C Terminal Control Area must
X:  exit the airspace whenever the weather deteriorates below VFR limits.
X:  establish radio contact with the appropriate ATC unit only when transiting the associated Control Zone.
Y:  establish and maintain radio communication with the appropriate ATC Unit.
X:  contact Radar Service only when taking off or landing at the major airport concerned.