Q: The amount of fuel and oil carried on board any helicopter at the commencement of a day VFR flight must be sufficient, to provide for foreseeable delays having been considered, to fly to the destination aerodrome,
X:  and thereafter for 45 minutes at normal cruising speed.
X:  then to a specified alternate and thereafter for 45 minutes at normal cruising speed.
Y:  and thereafter for 20 minutes at normal cruising speed.
X:  then to a specified alternate and thereafter for 20 minutes at normal cruising speed.
Q: The amount of fuel carried on board any propeller-driven aeroplane at the commencement of a day VFR flight must be sufficient, having regard to the meteorological conditions and foreseeable delays that are expected in flight, to fly to the destination aerodrome
X:  and then fly for a period of 45 minutes at normal cruising speed.
Y:  and then fly for a period of 30 minutes at normal cruising speed.
X:  then to a specified alternate and then for a period of 45 minutes at normal cruising speed.
X:  then to a specified alternate and then fly for a period of 30 minutes at normal cruising speed.
Q: If a flight plan is not filed, a flight itinerary must be filed
Y:  for flights proceeding 25 NM or more from the point of origin.
X:  only for flights in sparsely settled areas.
X:  for flights destined to land at aerodromes or places other than the point of origin.
X:  for all flights.
Q: After landing from a VFR flight for which a flight plan has been filed, the pilot shall report the arrival to the appropriate ATS unit within
X:  15 minutes.
X:  30 minutes.
X:  45 minutes.
Y:  60 minutes.
Q: When there is a deviation from a VFR flight plan, ATC shall be notified of such deviation
Y:  as soon as possible.
X:  within 10 minutes.
X:  within 30 minutes.
X:  within 60 minutes after landing.
Q: Where no search and rescue initiation time is specified in a flight itinerary, when shall the pilot report to the "responsible person"?
X:  Within one hour after the expiration of the estimated duration of the flight specified in the flight itinerary.
X:  Within one hour after landing.
X:  Within 24 hours after the expiration of the estimated duration of the flight specified in the flight itinerary.
Y:  As soon as practicable after landing but no later than 24 hours after the last reported ETA.
Q: With regard to a flight itinerary, the "responsible person" means someone who
Y:  has agreed to report the aircraft overdue.
X:  is 18 years of age or over.
X:  holds an aeronautical licence.
X:  has agreed to report the arrival of the aircraft.
Q: Where a VFR flight plan has been filed, an arrival report must be filed by the pilot
Y:  by advising an ATS unit.
X:  at each intermediate stop and then reopened on take-off.
X:  by parking the aircraft in close proximity to the tower.
X:  except at airports served by a control tower in which case the tower will automatically close the flight plan.
Q: Estimated elapsed time A to B
1 hour 15 minutes.
Estimated stopover time at B
30 minutes.
Estimated elapsed time B to C
1 hour 20 minutes.
 Using the above information, what time should be entered in the "Elapsed Time" box of a VFR flight plan?
X:  3 hours 50 minutes.
X:  3 hours 20 minutes.
Y:  3 hours 05 minutes.
X:  2 hours 35 minutes.
Q: When filing a VFR flight plan with an intermediate stop, the total elapsed time to be entered is the total
Y:  elapsed time for all legs including the duration of the intermediate stop.
X:  elapsed time for all legs, plus the intermediate stop, plus 45 minutes.
X:  flight time for all legs.
X:  elapsed time to the first landing plus intermediate stops.
Q: How is an intermediate stop indicated on the flight plan form for a VFR flight?
X:  By including duration of the intermediate stop in "Elapsed Time" box as ATC automatically checks time between points.
X:  Same as any VFR flight plan if the intermediate time does not exceed 30 minutes at each point.
Y:  By repeating the name of intermediate stop and its duration in the "Route" column.
X:  By simply indicating "Intermediate Stop" in "Other Information" column.