Q: Avoiding wake turbulence is
X: the sole responsibility of ATC.
X: the responsibility of the pilot, only when advised by ATC of the possibility of wake turbulence.
X: a responsibility shared by both the pilot and ATC.
Y: the sole responsibility of the pilot.
Q: Hazardous wake turbulence caused by aircraft in still air
X: dissipates immediately.
X: dissipates rapidly.
Y: may persist for two minutes or more.
X: persists indefinitely.
Q: Which response is most correct with respect to wake turbulence?
X: Wing tip vortices are carried by the ambient wind.
X: Wing tip vortices have a circular and downward motion.
X: Wake turbulence exists behind all aeroplanes and helicopters in flight.
Y: Response (1), (2) and (3) are correct.
Q: The wing tip vortices generated by a heavy aeroplane can cause a lighter aircraft encountering them to
X: go out of control.
X: continue descent even when maximum power is applied.
X: sustain structural damage.
Y: experience any of the above situations.
Q: During the two minutes after the passage of a heavy aeroplane in cruising flight, hazardous wing tip vortices will
X: dissipate completely.
X: dissipate rapidly.
Y: dissipate very slowly.
X: remain at cruising altitude.
Q: The pilot of a light aircraft on final approach close behind a heavier aircraft should plan the approach to land
Y: beyond the touchdown point of the other aircraft.
X: prior to the touchdown point of the other aircraft.
X: at the touchdown point of the other aircraft.
X: to the right or left of the touchdown point of the other aircraft.
Q: To avoid wake turbulence when taking off behind a large aircraft, the pilot should
X: remain in ground effect until past the rotation point of the large aircraft.
X: become airborne in the calm airspace between the vortices.
X: taxi until past the rotation point of the large aircraft, then take off and remain below its climb path.
Y: become airborne before the rotation point of the large aircraft and stay above its departure path or request a turn to avoid the departure path.
Q: Wake turbulence is produced by
X: heavy aeroplanes only, regardless of their speed.
X: turbo-jet powered aircraft only.
X: fast moving aeroplanes only, regardless of their weight.
Y: all fixed and rotary wing aircraft.
Q: Wake turbulence caused by a departing large aeroplane begins
X: before rotation.
Y: with rotation.
X: after becoming airborne.
X: with full power application.
Q: Wake turbulence caused by a departing aeroplane is most severe immediately
X: before rotation.
Y: following take-off.
X: above its flight path.
X: following full power application.
Q: Which statement concerning wing tip vortices is false?
X: Vortices normally settle below and behind the aircraft.
X: With a light cross-wind, one vortex can remain stationary over the ground for some time.
X: Lateral movement of vortices, even in a no wind condition, may place a vortex core over a parallel runway.
Y: Vortices are caused directly by "jet wash".
Q: Wake turbulence will be greatest when generated by an aeroplane which is
X: heavy, landing configuration and slow speed.
Y: heavy, clean configuration and slow speed.
X: light, clean configuration and high speed.
X: heavy, take-off configuration and slow speed.
Q: A helicopter in forward flight produces hazardous vortices
X: which rise above the helicopter.
Y: similar to wing tip vortices.
X: which remains at the same level as the helicopter.
X: ahead of the helicopter.
Q: Which statement concerning vortices caused by helicopters is correct?
X: Helicopter vortices are generally weak and dissipate rapidly.
Y: The size and weight of the helicopter has a direct influence on the intensity of the vortices.
X: Helicopter vortices are less intense than the vortices of an aeroplane of the same weight.
X: Wind does not influence the movement of vortices generated by a helicopter in hovering flight.
Q: What effect would a light cross-wind have on the wing tip vortices generated by a large aeroplane that had just taken off? A light cross-wind
Y: could cause one vortex to remain over the runway for some time.
X: would rapidly dissipate the strength of both vortices.
X: would rapidly clear the runway of all vortices.
X: would not affect the lateral movement of the vortices.